(/authentication/social-connections/spotify) update guide (#1591)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/authentication/social-connections/spotify.mdx

Reviewer: description needs to be updated:

Learn how to allow users to sign up and sign in to your Clerk app with their Spotify account using OAuth.

Reviewer: "To make the setup process easier, we recommend keeping" --> "To make the setup process easier, it's recommended to keep"

  1. Ensure that both **Enable for sign-up and sign-in** and **Use custom credentials** are toggled on.
  1. Save the **Authorized redirect URI** somewhere secure. Keep the modal and page open.

  ### Create your app in Spotify

  1. On a separate page, go to the [Spotify Developer Dashboard](https://developer.spotify.com/) and sign in.
  1. In the top-right, select your profile button and select [**Dashboard**](https://developer.spotify.com/dashboard).
  1. Select [**Create app**](https://developer.spotify.com/dashboard/create).
  1. Complete the required fields. For **Redirect URIs**, add the **Authorized Redirect URI** that you saved from Clerk Dashboard.
  1. Select **Save**.
  1. On your app page, select **Settings**. Keep this page open.

  ### Set the Client ID and Client Secret in your Clerk Dashboard

  1. In the Spotify app's settings page, save the **Client ID** and **Client secret** somewhere secure. To reveal the **Client secret**, you must select **View client secret**.
  1. Navigate back to your Clerk Dashboard where the modal should still be open and paste these values into the respective fields.
  1. Select **Add connection**.

  > [!NOTE]

>   > If the modal or page is not still open, navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections). In the top navigation, select **Configure**. Then in the sidebar, select **SSO Connections**. Select the **Spotify** connection. Under **Use custom credentials**, you can paste the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** into their respective fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > If the modal or page is not still open, navigate to the [**SSO Connections**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) page in the Clerk Dashboard. Select the **Spotify** connection. Under **Use custom credentials**, you can paste the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** into their respective fields.
```

---
title: Add Spotify as a social connection

> description: Learn how to allow users to sign in and sign up for your Clerk application with their Spotify account.

Reviewer: small nit: i like "sign up" to be before "sign in" and i try to keep that consistent thru out the docs!

```suggestion
description: Learn how to allow users to sign up and sign in to your Clerk application with their Spotify account.
```

---

<TutorialHero
  beforeYouStart={[
    {
      title: "A Clerk application is required.",
      link: "/docs/quickstarts/setup-clerk",
      icon: "clerk",
    },
    {
      title: "A Spotify account is required.",
      link: "https://developer.spotify.com",
      icon: "user-circle",
    },
  ]}
>
  - Enable Spotify as a social provider in Clerk
  - Create your application in Spotify
  - Configure your Spotify application in Clerk
</TutorialHero>

> Enabling OAuth with [**Spotify**](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/concepts/authorization) allows your users to sign in and sign up for your Clerk application with their Spotify account.

Reviewer: small nit

```suggestion
Enabling OAuth with [**Spotify**](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/concepts/authorization) allows your users to sign up and sign in to your Clerk application with their Spotify account.
```

**Clerk does not currently support preconfigured shared OAuth credentials for Spotify on development instances.** You need to provide custom credentials for both development _and_ production instances, which involves generating a **Client ID** and **Client Secret** in the Spotify Developer Dashboard. This guide walks you through this process.

> [!CAUTION]

> > [Spotify](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/concepts/quota-modes) requires users to be added to the Spotify application's allowlist to connect to your Clerk application via Spotify OAuth. Each user attempting to use your Clerk application in **development** with Spotify as their authentication method must be added to the allowlist before gaining access.
> >
> > Although users may be able to log into your **development** Clerk application without being allowlisted in Spotify, any API requests made with an access token associated with that user and the Spotify application will receive a 403 status code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For **development** instances, [Spotify](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/concepts/quota-modes) requires users to be added to the application's allowlist in order to use Spotify as a social provider in your Clerk application. If they are not allowlisted, any API requests made with an access token associated with that user and the Spotify application will receive a 403 status code.
```

> To make the setup process easier, we recommend keeping two browser tabs open: one for your [**Clerk Dashboard**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) and one for your [**Spotify Developer Dashboard**](https://developer.spotify.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make the setup process easier, it's recommended to keep two browser tabs open: one for your [**Clerk Dashboard**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) and one for your [**Spotify Developer Dashboard**](https://developer.spotify.com/).
```

<Steps>
  ### Enable Spotify as a social connection in Clerk

>   1. In your **Clerk Dashboard**, go to **User & Authentication > [SSO Connections](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections)**.
>   1. Select **Add connection** and choose **For all users**.
>   1. In the **Choose provider** dropdown, search for **Spotify**, then select **Spotify** from the list.
>   1. The configuration options will appear below. Copy the **Authorized redirect URI**. Keep the modal and page open throughout the guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections).
  1. In the top navigation, select **Configure**. Then in the sidebar, select **SSO Connections**.
  1. Select the **Add connection** button, and select **For all users**.
  1. In the **Choose provider** dropdown, select **Spotify**.
  1. Ensure that both **Enable for sign-up and sign-in** and **Use custom credentials** are toggled on. 
  1. Save the **Authorized redirect URI** somewhere secure.
  1. Keep the modal and page open throughout the guide.
```

  ### Create your application in Spotify

  1. On a separate page, go to the [**Spotify Developer Dashboard**](https://developer.spotify.com/) and sign in to create a new Spotify application.

>   1. Once signed in, select your profile button in the top-right navigation and choose **Dashboard** from the dropdown menu. Select [**Create app**](https://developer.spotify.com/dashboard/create) on the dashboard page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. In the top-right navigation, select your profile button and select [**Dashboard**](https://developer.spotify.com/dashboard). 
  1. Select [**Create app**](https://developer.spotify.com/dashboard/create).
```

>   1. After being redirected to the application creation form, complete the fields for **App name** and **App description**. For **Redirect URIs**, paste the URL you copied from the Spotify modal in your **Clerk Dashboard**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Fill in the required fields. For **Redirect URIs**, add the **Authorized Redirect URI** that you saved from Clerk Dashboard.
```

>   1. In the next section, you will connect Spotify to Clerk using your **Client ID** and **Client Secret**. For now, select **Settings**. Keep this page open for the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Once you finish creating your app, you will be taken to the application's overview page. Select **Settings**.
```

  ### Set the Client ID and Client Secret in your Clerk Dashboard

>   1. In the Spotify application's settings page, scroll to the bottom and select **Edit**.
>   1. Scroll back to the top of the page and copy the **Client ID**.
>   1. Navigate back to your **Clerk Dashboard**. In the **Add connection for all users** modal under the **Configure Spotify** section, paste the string in **Client ID**.
>   1. Navigate back to the **Spotify Developer Dashboard**. Select the **View client secret** link and copy the string.
>   1. Paste the string in **Client Secret** and select **Add connection**. Once the settings are saved, you should see a green **`Used for sign-in`** label next to Spotify in the **Provider** list.

Reviewer: We can make this more concise with the following suggestion, and we can also do our best to remove anything that's not necessary, as the dashboard's change a lot and we want to limit how much we rely on the current UI in our docs. so for example, "you should see a green **`Used for sign-in`** label next to Spotify in the **Provider** list." isn't technically necessary for this step, and it's more tech debt because things like "green" "use for sign-in" label, etc etc, are all things that could change. so let's try to limit how much we rely on the UI in the docs, because we have so much to keep up with already - if that makes sense.

```suggestion
  1. In the Spotify application's settings page, save the **Client ID** and **Client secret** somewhere secure. To reveal the **Client secret**, you must select the **View client secret** button.
  1. Navigate back to your **Clerk Dashboard** where the modal should still be open, and paste these values into the respective fields.
  1. Select **Add connection**.
  
  > [!NOTE]
  > If the modal or page is not still open, navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections). In the top navigation, select **Configure**. Then in the sidebar, select **SSO Connections**. Select the **Spotify** connection. Under **Use custom credentials**, you can paste the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** into their respective fields.
```

  ### Test your OAuth

  The simplest way to test your OAuth setup is by visiting your Clerk application's [Account Portal](/docs/customization/account-portal/overview), which is available out-of-the-box for all Clerk applications.

  1. In the navigation sidebar of your **Clerk Dashboard**, select [**Account Portal**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=account-portal).
  1. Next to the **Sign-in** URL, select **Visit**. The URL should resemble:
     - **For development**: `https://your-domain.accounts.dev/sign-in`
     - **For production**: `https://accounts.your-domain.com/sign-in`
  1. On the sign-in page, you should see **Spotify** as an option. Use it to sign in with your Spotify account.
</Steps>

### Finished 🎉

> Congratulations! Your users can now sign in and sign up for your Clerk application with their Spotify account.

Reviewer: I've actually just been ending the guides with the "Test your OAuth" step, and not having this extra step here. what do you think about fully removing it?

>   1. In the top navigation, select **Configure**. Then in the sidebar, select **SSO Connections**.

Reviewer: this and the above line need to get updated to the new format

>   1. Select the **Add connection** button, and select **For all users**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Select **Add connection** and select **For all users**.
```

  1. In the **Choose provider** dropdown, select **Spotify**.
  1. Ensure that both **Enable for sign-up and sign-in** and **Use custom credentials** are toggled on.
  1. Save the **Authorized redirect URI** somewhere secure.

>   1. Keep the modal and page open throughout the guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Save the **Authorized redirect URI** somewhere secure. Keep the modal and page open throughout the guide.
```

  ### Create your application in Spotify

>   1. On a separate page, go to the [**Spotify Developer Dashboard**](https://developer.spotify.com/) and sign in to create a new Spotify application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. On a separate page, go to the [**Spotify Developer Dashboard**](https://developer.spotify.com/) and sign in.
```

>   1. In the top-right navigation, select your profile button and select [**Dashboard**](https://developer.spotify.com/dashboard).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. In the top-right, select your profile button and select [**Dashboard**](https://developer.spotify.com/dashboard).
```

  1. Select [**Create app**](https://developer.spotify.com/dashboard/create).

>   1. After being redirected to the application creation form, complete the fields for **App name** and **App description**. For **Redirect URIs**, paste the URL you copied from the Spotify modal in your **Clerk Dashboard**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. After being redirected to the application creation form, complete the fields for **App name** and **App description**. For **Redirect URIs**, paste the *Authorized Redirect URI** you saved from the Clerk Dashboard.
```
